.TH qwavsilence 1 "february 2001" "quelcom 0.4.0" "quelcom man pages"

.SH NAME
qwavsilence \- detect and shrink silence sequences in wav files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B qwavsilence
.RI [ option ]...\  file ...
.ad

.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
.B qwavsilence
reads a list of wav files looking for silence sequences.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR <\fIduration\fR>[<\fIformat\fR>], \fB\-\-duration\fR=<\fIduration\fR>[<\fIformat\fR>]
\fIduration \fRis a positive integer that specifies the minimum duration of a silent sequence on a file to be reported. the value is treated as a sample number unless a format specifier is used. see the \fBFORMATS\fR section below for information. the default value is one second.
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
show a brief help and exit.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-shrink\fR
when this option is set, all the silent sequences greater than \fIduration\fR will be shrinked down to \fIduration\fR and the file size truncated accordingly.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR <\fIthreshold\fR>, \fB\-\-threshold\fR=<\fIthreshold\fR>
\fIthreshold\fR is a percentage value respect the maximum (absolute) sample value. samples whose value is under the given \fIthreshold\fR are considered silent. for example, a value of 2 means that all samples with absolute value under the 2% will be treated as silent samples. the default value is 0.
.TP
.BR \-v ,\  \-\-verbose
show more detailed info.
.TP
.BR \-V ,\  \-\-version
show version and exit.

.SH FORMATS
.LP
the following modifiers are provided:
.TP
.B j
value is interpreted as milliseconds.
.TP
.B m
value is interpreted as minutes.
.TP
.B s
value is interpreted as seconds.
.TP
.B b
value is interpreted as bytes.
.TP
.B k
value is interpreted as kbytes (1024 bytes).
.TP
.B M
value is interpreted as megabytes (1024 kbytes).
.LP
in either case, the values specified will be rounded to get an integer number of samples.

.SH BUGS
.LP
tests has been done only with 44100 Hz 16 bit stereo files, though it may work with mono/stereo 8/16 bits files.

.SH AUTHOR 
.LP
dmanye@etse.urv.es
.br
http://www.etse.urv.es/~dmanye/quelcom/quelcom.html

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qwavinfo (1),
.BR qwavjoin (1),
.BR qwavcut (1),
.BR qwavfade (1),
.BR qwavheaderdump (1)
.br
.BR qmp3info (1),
.BR qmp3join (1),
.BR qmp3cut (1),
.BR qmp3check (1),
.BR qmp3report (1)
